8-javascript-events-in-mobile-environment/recipe-1.adoc, before:

////

Notes
-----

* Discuss various approaches for using the mobileinit method for configuring defaults.
* Discuss some important default settings which can be configured, like namespace, default transitions, etc.
* List out the other default settings which can be modified.

Author: Kinshuk Kar <kinshuk.kar@gmail.com>

////

#.# Recipe Title
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Using mobileinit to configure jQuery Mobile defaults.


Problem
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
jQuery Mobile has a number of default settings which it uses for its markup enhancements and other functionality. In most cases the default settings suffice but there maybe situations where one would need to modify the default settings.

Solution
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
jQuery Mobile triggers an event named "mobileinit" on the document object just when it begins execution. This event can be used as a handle to configure the defaults before jQuery Mobile goes ahead and uses them.

The following example shows how the mobileinit event can be handled to configure jQuery Mobile's defaults - 

----
include::recipe-1-code/mobileinit.html[]
----

Discussion
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
The discussion of your recipe should be where you break down a description of the problem you are solving.  It is the primary discussion place and should be where code examples are put.  It could be 4-6 paragraphs long.

Commit message:

Starting with Discussion and other minor changes

8-javascript-events-in-mobile-environment/recipe-1.adoc, after:

////

Notes
-----

* Discuss various approaches for using the mobileinit method for configuring defaults.
* Discuss some important default settings which can be configured, like namespace, default transitions, etc.
* List out the other default settings which can be modified.

Author: Kinshuk Kar <kinshuk.kar@gmail.com>

////

#.# Recipe Title
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Using mobileinit to configure jQuery Mobile defaults.


Problem
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
jQuery Mobile has a number of default settings which it uses for its markup enhancements and other functionality. In most cases the default settings suffice but there maybe situations where one would need to modify the default settings.

Solution
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
jQuery Mobile triggers an event named "mobileinit" on the document object just when it begins execution. This event can be used as a handle to configure the defaults before jQuery Mobile goes ahead and uses them.

The following example shows how the mobileinit event can be handled to configure jQuery Mobile's defaults - 

----
include::recipe-1-code/mobileinit.html[]
----

[CAUTION]
===============================
The "mobileinit" handler should be placed just before the jQuery Mobile inclusion, as the handler would not be registered when the event fires.
===============================


Discussion
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
We can also achieve the achieve the same effect as above by extending the $.mobile object using jQuery. Following is the snippet for it - 

[source,javascript]
---
$( document ).bind( "mobileinit" , function() {
  $.extend(  $.mobile , {
    foo : bar
  });
});
---
