# Chapter 7

## Capturing Data with Forms

Description: 

*Chapter Leader:* <a href="mailto:eli@eliperelman.com">Eli Perelman</a>

<a href="/jquerymobilecookbook/book/blob/master/7-capturing-data-with-forms/introduction.adoc">Introduction</a>

## Recipes

### 1 - <a href="/jquerymobilecookbook/book/blob/master/7-capturing-data-with-forms/recipe-1.adoc">Getting started with jQuery Mobile Forms</a>
*author:* <a href="mailto:adambradley25@gmail.com">Adam Bradley</a>

Not a recipe

*Problem:* 

*Description:* Discuss form UX on mobile devices. Explain how native inputs are hard to use on small devices and how jQM enhances them to be touch friendly.

---

### 2 - <a href="/jquerymobilecookbook/book/blob/master/7-capturing-data-with-forms/recipe-2.adoc">Creating common form elements</a>
*author:* <a href="mailto:teren@tixocloud.com">Teren Teh</a>

*Problem:* Standard HTML form elements were designed for mouse and keyboard interactions. Although browsers on mobile devices attempt to make the user experience better, the form elements are still not touch-friendly. Certain elements are just too small for fingers.

*Description:* List of all common form elements, create each one of them one by one, comparison with desktop vs mobile?

---

### 3 - <a href="/jquerymobilecookbook/book/blob/master/7-capturing-data-with-forms/recipe-3.adoc">Special form elements</a>
*author:* <a href="mailto:"></a>

*Problem:* 

*Description:* creating stuff like sliders and toggles

---

### 4 - <a href="/jquerymobilecookbook/book/blob/master/7-capturing-data-with-forms/recipe-4.adoc">Theming forms</a>
*author:* <a href="mailto:"></a>

*Problem:* 

*Description:* How multipages works

---

### 5 - <a href="/jquerymobilecookbook/book/blob/master/7-capturing-data-with-forms/recipe-5.adoc">Using native form elements</a>
*author:* <a href="mailto:"></a>

*Problem:* 

*Description:* How to have jQuery Mobile NOT enhance input elements

---

### 6 - <a href="/jquerymobilecookbook/book/blob/master/7-capturing-data-with-forms/recipe-6.adoc">Form submittal and AJAX</a>
*author:* <a href="mailto:webdpro@gmail.com">Michael Knox</a>

*Problem:* When creating a Mobile Web site or Mobile App using Jquery Mobile submitting data back to the server can be a cutial part of your application. Due to the nature of Jquery Mobile and it AJAX navigation traditional form submission can become an issue. 

*Description:* 

---

### 7 - <a href="/jquerymobilecookbook/book/blob/master/7-capturing-data-with-forms/recipe-7.adoc">Generating elements on-the-fly</a>
*author:* <a href="mailto:"></a>

*Problem:* 

*Description:* Note on optimization - document fragments to avoid reflow, attaching to the DOM, challenges

---

### 8 - <a href="/jquerymobilecookbook/book/blob/master/7-capturing-data-with-forms/recipe-8.adoc">Form Validation</a>
*author:* <a href="mailto:anu.shahi@gmail.com">Anu Shahi</a>

*Problem:* Enabling client-side form validation for a typical jQuery Mobile application presents a range of challenges. Firstly, the single page application approach requires validation rules to be applied during initialization of a specific form page. Secondly, due to the markup generated by jQuery Mobile during progressive enhancement, error messages must be placed appropriately around elements that fail validation, such as select lists and radio controls. This ensures errors blend in sensibly when viewed within enhanced forms. Finally, event handlers must be registered to trigger as you type validation for heavily enhanced form elements, where binding click handlers to the original native controls has no effect, such as select lists and radio controls.

*Description:*  (posted by Anu - outline code for attaching java-script based validation handlers to form elements enhanced by jQuery mobile; elaborate hooking into correct change events to trigger validation, rendering errors across enhanced widgets and submitting forms after validation is complete)    

---

### 9 - <a href="/jquerymobilecookbook/book/blob/master/7-capturing-data-with-forms/recipe-9.adoc">Options for Displaying Elements</a>
*author:* <a href="mailto:mattias@kihlstrom.com">Mattias Kihlstrom</a>

*Problem:* When designing a form you often want to group elements together. This could be as simple as putting a label just before its input element and wrapping a fieldset around them. But how would you go about if you for instance have three radio buttons grouped together horizontally and you also want them to fill up the full width of the screen?

*Description:* How to let horizontally grouped inputs use 100% page width

---

### 10 - <a href="/jquerymobilecookbook/book/blob/master/7-capturing-data-with-forms/recipe-10.adoc">HTML5 Inputs and Virtual Keyboards</a>
*author:* <a href="mailto:astanley@rim.com">Adam Stanley</a>

*Problem:* Touch screen devices display a virtual keyboard when users interact with HTML form input fields. Developers often use text input fields to display an alphanumeric keyboard.  Ideally, a custom virtual keyboard should be displayed for input fields that represent non-text data (e.g. dates, urls, phone numbers, etc).

*Description:* 

---

### 11 - <a href="/jquerymobilecookbook/book/blob/master/7-capturing-data-with-forms/recipe-11.adoc">Uploading Files and Multi-part Requests</a>
*author:* <a href="mailto:"></a>

*Problem:* 

*Description:* Submitting non-ajax and ajax based multi-part upload requests from forms enhanced by jQuery Mobile (...maybe elaborate key considerations, such as lack of file-upload support in certain mobile browsers (e.g iOS Safari)   

