7-capturing-data-with-forms/recipe-01-getting-started.adoc, before:

////

Author: Adam Bradley <adambradley25@gmail.com>

Discuss form UX on mobile devices. Explain how native inputs are hard to use on small devices and how jQM enhances them to be touch friendly.

////

7.1 Getting started with jQuery Mobile Forms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Mobile devices often offer fewer ways for users to input data compared to that of traditional computers. Desktop and laptop users are able to take advantage of numerous input devices, such as entering an email using a full-sized keyboard or selecting a checkbox using a mouse or trackpad. Additionally, most traditional computers offer physically large displays allowing webpage authors to easily organize form inputs optimized for usability.

Most mobile devices, however, are not given physically large displays or input devices. Commonly, mobile devices can fit into one hand and their primary input is often a touch display or small trackpad. With these factors it’s often difficult to fill out forms on mobile devices.

One of the many benefits of jQuery Mobile is its progressive enhancement of standard form inputs to improve their usability.

TODO

Commit message:

chptr 7, r1, getting start with forms updates, 75% done

7-capturing-data-with-forms/recipe-01-getting-started.adoc, after:

////

Author: Adam Bradley <adambradley25@gmail.com>

Discuss form UX on mobile devices. Explain how native inputs are hard to use on small devices and how jQM enhances them to be touch friendly.

////

7.1 Getting started with jQuery Mobile Forms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Mobile devices often provide fewer ways for users to input data compared to that of traditional computers. Desktop and laptop users are able to take advantage of numerous input devices, such as entering an email using a full-sized keyboard or selecting a checkbox using a mouse. On top of the numerous and accurate input devices, most traditional computers offer large displays allowing webpage authors to easily organize form inputs optimized for monitors.

Taking away large input devices and physically large displays make for completing the average form difficult. Commonly, mobile devices can fit into one hand and their primary input is often a touch display or small trackpad. In comparison, using native web browser inputs on the standard mobile device is like using a baseball to set your alarm clock.

Modern mobile apps address these issues by providing large user-friendly inputs. The difference here is that mobile app development was designed specifically for small screens and fat fingers, while web browsers have been following the same conventions used from the 1990's. Following modern standards, jQuery Mobile is able to progressively enhance and increase the surface area of native inputs. By doing so, inputs are transformed to provide an "app-like" appearance that users have grown accustomed to.

TODO
