2-pages-the-building-blocks-of-jquery-mobile/recipe-12-navbar-icons.adoc, before:

////

Author: Adam Bradley <adambradley25@gmail.com>

Why and how to add icons. Demonstrate the various positions an icon can be located. 

////


2.12 Navbar icons
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Problem
+++++++
Like with any application, or even your car's dashboard, icons help users quickly identify an expected outcome when an interaction occurs. 

Solution
++++++++
By default, jQuery Mobile comes with a basic set of icons which can be easily displayed within various elements, including navbars. After jQuery Mobile performs its progressive enhancement magic, the assigned icons help to provide users with a familiar "app-like" appearance. Along with choosing which icon to display for each navbar link, author's can also customize an icon's position relative to each nav link's text.

.Navbar with Icons
[source,html]
----
<div data-role="footer">		
	<div data-role="navbar">
		<ul>
			<li><a href="#" data-icon="home">Home</a></li>
			<li><a href="#" data-icon="info">Info</a></li>
			<li><a href="#" data-icon="search">Search</a></li>
		</ul>
	</div><!-- /navbar -->
</div><!-- /footer -->
----

Discussion
++++++++++
Out of the box, jQuery Mobile provides a standard set of icons commonly used, such as "home", "info" or "search" icons. __See ########## for more information on jQuery Mobile icons.__ By using the 'data-icon' attribute, authors can assign icons to individual. By default they will be positioned on top of their link's text, which is also customizable.

By using the 'data-iconpos' attribute within the navbar container, authors are able to override the default _top_ icon positioning. Vaild 'data-iconpos' values include: __left, right, top, bottom__.

.Navbar with Bottom Positioned Icons
[source,html]
----
<div data-role="navbar" data-iconpos="bottom">
----

Notice in the example above the 'data-iconpos="bottom"' is not assigned to an individual link, but instead to the  navbar container.

Commit message:

updated all the headers in chapter 2 recipes

2-pages-the-building-blocks-of-jquery-mobile/recipe-12-navbar-icons.adoc, after:

////

Why and how to add icons. Demonstrate the various positions an icon can be located. 

Author: Adam Bradley <adambradley25@gmail.com>
Chapter Leader approved: <date>
Copy edited: <date>
Tech edited: <date>

////


2.12 Navbar icons
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Problem
+++++++
Like with any application, or even your car's dashboard, icons help users quickly identify an expected outcome when an interaction occurs. 

Solution
++++++++
By default, jQuery Mobile comes with a basic set of icons which can be easily displayed within various elements, including navbars. After jQuery Mobile performs its progressive enhancement magic, the assigned icons help to provide users with a familiar "app-like" appearance. Along with choosing which icon to display for each navbar link, author's can also customize an icon's position relative to each nav link's text.

.Navbar with Icons
[source,html]
----
<div data-role="footer">		
	<div data-role="navbar">
		<ul>
			<li><a href="#" data-icon="home">Home</a></li>
			<li><a href="#" data-icon="info">Info</a></li>
			<li><a href="#" data-icon="search">Search</a></li>
		</ul>
	</div><!-- /navbar -->
</div><!-- /footer -->
----

Discussion
++++++++++
Out of the box, jQuery Mobile provides a standard set of icons commonly used, such as "home", "info" or "search" icons. __See ########## for more information on jQuery Mobile icons.__ By using the 'data-icon' attribute, authors can assign icons to individual. By default they will be positioned on top of their link's text, which is also customizable.

By using the 'data-iconpos' attribute within the navbar container, authors are able to override the default _top_ icon positioning. Vaild 'data-iconpos' values include: __left, right, top, bottom__.

.Navbar with Bottom Positioned Icons
[source,html]
----
<div data-role="navbar" data-iconpos="bottom">
----

Notice in the example above the 'data-iconpos="bottom"' is not assigned to an individual link, but instead to the  navbar container.
